# 17.1
## Problem.
Show Hamiltonian Cycle Problem(HCP) is in class NP
## Answer.
If one has a proper hint of path, one can check if the hint is a hamiltonian cycle in at most $O(|V|)$, which shows HCP is in class poly check. Hence, HCP is in class NP.

1. If the length of hint is larger than the input of instance, return False. 
1. Scanning path and rasie a flag if it has passed each node. $O(|V|)$
    - Return False if it passes a node twice.
    - Return False if start and goal are different.
2. Return False if a node has not passed. $O(|V|)$
    - Otherwise return True.

# 17.2
## Problem.
Show Clique Problem is in class NP
## Answer.
If one has a proper hint of complete graph, one can check if $G$ includes complete graph in at most $O(k^2)$. Note that $k \le |V|$. Hence, Clique Problem is in class poly check, so in class NP.

1. If the length of hint is larger than the input of instance, return False. 
1. Check if $G$ includes the hint. $O(|E|^2)$
2. Check if the hint doesn't have self loop or multiple graph. $O(|E|^2)$
3. Check if all nodes in the hint are connected. $O(|E|^2)$

# 17.3
## Problem.
Show Clique Problem is in class NP by using that Stable Set Problem is in class NP.
## Answer.
Given $G(V, E)$, consider algorithm to make $G^{\prime}(V, \bar{E})$, where $G^{\prime}$ has edges only where $G$ doesn't has. This algorithm works in $O(|V|^2)$.

- If $G$ has size $k$ Stable set, then $G^\prime$ has size $k$ complete graph. 
    - $\because$ all edges not existing in $G$ exist in $G^\prime$
- If $G$ doesn't have size $k$ Stable set, then $G^\prime$ doesn't have size $k$ complete graph.
    - $\because$ all edges in $G$ don't exist in $G^\prime$

Thus polynomial-time reduction leads Stable Set Problem $\le_{P}$ Clique Problem.
Since Stable Set Problem is NP complete, Clique Problem is NP complete